In the previous video, we already learn about
some basic cisco command,
we also already learn how to configure an ip address in the
cisco router.
Next in this video, I will show you how to
save configuration in cisco.
Let’s start with the switch.
Here let’s enable, and then show run.
Okay here we don’t configure anything yet.
For testing, let’s try to configure a hostname.
Let’s say the hostname is sw like this.
Now let’s try to restart the switch.
To restart the switch, we can use command
do reload.
Here we get a question system configuration
has been modified, save, yes or no.
If we choose yes, the configuration will be saved,
but in this case, we will choose no.
Here I want to show you the case how if suddenly
our switch is restarted,
let’s say there is a problem with electricity.
So the switch will be shutdown or restart.
Okay here the booting is done, let’s enter,
and here we can see that the hostname is back
to the default
This is what will be happened if the cisco
devices is suddenly shutdown or restart.
The configuration will be gone.
For another example, let’s try to add a
router, we will not using this one,
because we already have many configuration here.
Okay let’s import a new router, choose no
here, enable to go to privilege mode,
and conf t to go to global configuration mode.
Here let’s configure the hostname, let’s
say the hostname is R, and then let’s also
configure the password.
Here if we try to show run, we can see the
configuration that we already do, which is
hostname and enable secret.
After doing configuration like this, let’s
say suddenly the electricity is down,
so our router must be shutdown right?
Okay let’s try to shutdown the router, here
we can go to physical.
And here we can see on off button.
Let’s click the button, and now the router
is shutdown.
So let’s say now there is a problem with
the electricity.
And then now let’s turn on the router again.
Now let’s go to cli again, here let’s
wait for the booting process.
Okay the booting is done, and now if we see
here, the hostname is back to the default,
and if we try to enable, we don’t need to
input any password.
The configuration that we already do before
is gone.
Why?
This is because the configuration of cisco
devices is not saved by default.
This is why we need to save the cisco configuration.
Now let’s try to learn how to save the cisco
configuration.
For testing, let’s configure the hostname,
let’s say R. Let’s also configure the password.
Okay, now let’s save the configuration.
To save the configuration in cisco, we can
use write command.
Okay now the configuration is saved.
Now let’s shutdown the router, and then
turn on again.
Let’s go to CLI, wait for a second for booting.
And okay here we can see that the configuration
is not gone.
The hostname is still R and if we try to enable,
here we need to input the password.
This is means that the configuration is already
saved.
Okay I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.